Welcome back the students in this new section we're going to be creating the forgot password feature
for our CMS is going to be a great learning experience.
We're going to be learning a lot of really cool features.
Let me show you how it works.
So we're going to have a forgot password link here right.
Real close to our log in.
OK.
When we click here we're going to be redirected or the user is going to be redirected to a page is going
to ask for the user's e-mail.
OK.
So we are going to be using this e-mail to send the link behind the scenes we are going to verify that
this link is in the database.
Of course when we click reset we are going to be using a top third party software or wetware like I
call it sometimes that is going to allow us to use fake We are going to allow us to send fake e-mails
for development purposes.
OK.
Now just because we are sending fake email doesn't mean that we are using a fake application to send
it we're going to be using a real third party library to send the e-mail to the users.
But we just happen to have this problem happens to have it's a.p settings so we can plug into this and
test this before we you know we implemented to reel to reel features out there.
So but anyway so we're going to get a link in the e-mail or the user when they click here is going to
take it to another page.
He's going to ask for the new password.
Right.
So let's see.
I'm just going to type in any parts we're here.
As a matter of fact I'm just going to type in a very small box 1 2 3 1 2 and 3 reset
OK is going to redirect this to a logon page.
Now I'm going to type in the user name and password logon.
And as you can see it logs it logs the user end.
Let's logout let's look at another thing that we are going to be using again.
This is going to be a really cool amazing experience for you.
OK.
I can guarantee you that.
Let me show you right here the database you see this feels empty.
Let's do this again.
And let me show you what happens behind the scenes a little bit.
According to Jim
reset they use is going to get another e-mail this refresh here has another link.
But before I click on that link Let me show you what happens here.
We get this talking and this talking is random.
Every time somebody gets into that page.
So we click on it of course we change the password.
It's going to ask for us to little game but I want you to notice something.
You see this link here says Logan and he says Logan as well.
Well when I log in
he's going to redirect this of course to the dashboard but if I go to the home site we would see different
links here.
We got outman and log out now.
And we of course see a different link here.
We are using helper functions and we are going to be creating some really cool helper functions to refactor
code that we already have just to make our application a lot better.
So let me just revise some of the things that we are going to be learning.
We are going to be learning how to use BHP mailer to send emails.
We are going to be using Mail trap and want to show you how to use that if you never used it.
We are also going to be using prepared statements so we make sure that whoever puts information into
any of our application forms is going to be everything is going to be secure.
Now that person or that user is not going to be able to try to hack into our application do some damage.
So we're going to be preparing our statements.
We're going to be using that.
We're going to be using composer to pull independent these BHB packages.
If we never use.
I have a free course on that.
But on this on this section here I'm going to show you how to use a real quick to pull in packages BHB
third party libraries and there are dependencies.
Real fast is going to be a really cool amazing experience so I hope you are happy and I'll see you in
the next lectures.